a short workout that burns more calories
than one hour of jogging have you ever
noticed that after weeks of consistently
and successfully burning fat all of a
sudden you stop seeing much progress
that would be every gym goers worst
nightmare the workout Plateau one of the
quickest ways to break the plateau and
get you back on track again is through
Tabata training
it burns tons of calories and will give
you the results you want within a short
period of time that being said it is
intensive you're ready to learn more
about this fat melting method perhaps
you think you can give it a try
if so then keep on watching but before
you change into your gym clothes go
ahead and hit that subscribe button to
join the bright side of life we put out
all kinds of different videos every
single day so be sure to turn on post
notifications too that way you'll won't
miss a thing before we get into the
actual exercise routine it's really
important to know exactly what Tabata
training is and if it's right for you
like I said it burns calories like
nothing else
if one hour of jogging burns 544
calories just 30 minutes of Tabata
training burns 15 calories in a minute
that's around 450 calories and only half
an hour plus you can do it from the
comfort of your own home if you do
Tabata at least twice a week for just
six weeks you'll see a total body
transformation
not to mention you'll feel stronger
leaner and fitter than ever before
depending on your level of fitness you
can even do it up to four times a week
for even faster and better results
Tabata training works by combining 20
seconds of intense exercise with 10
seconds of rest in between reps this
exact timing allows your muscles to work
at their peak performance while giving
them enough time to recuperate today
we're gonna do six different exercises
all you have to do is perform eight sets
for 20 seconds at your maximum ability
and rest for 10 seconds in between sets
we'll also take a minute to rest after
each four-minute exercise
that brings the total workout to 30
minutes which is all you need to blast
excess fat away for good
precise timing is critical to your
success but don't worry we'll guide you
through reach exercise and tell you
exactly when to start and stop now a
word of caution this exercise is not for
beginners it's one of the most extreme
workouts ever so keep the following
things in mind check with your doctor
first to see if you're healthy enough to
handle the intensity those with any sort
of heart or cardiovascular condition
should steer clear of this type of
training as you're doing the workout
listen to your body
this exercise will push you to your
physical limit so keep a close eye on
your heart rate don't forget to mind
your technique never compromise quality
with quantity if you can't do any of the
suggested exercise because of an injury
just swap it with another one as long as
you stick to the precise timing you'll
be fine no cheating if you want results
perform each 20-second rep to your
absolute best if you think you're up for
the challenge then let's get started
first we absolutely need to warm up for
each of the following warm-ups the
starting position will be the same
stand up straight with your feet
shoulder-width apart engage your abs to
pull your stomach in and place your
hands on your hips
warm up number one head rolls 10 reps
get in the starting position slowly
rotate your head clockwise then
counterclockwise for one complete roll
ready on my count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and
warm-up number two shoulder rolls ten
reps again starting position roll your
shoulders forward upward and then
backward for one complete roll got it
your turn
one two three four five six seven eight
nine ten
warm-up number three upper body twists
16 reps starting position please use
your abs to turn your upper body to the
right
pause return to the center do the same
thing to the left
pause return to the center make sure
your hips remain facing forward the
whole time repeat each side
alternatively ready go one two three
four
five
six seven eight eight seven six five
four three two and done warm up number
four knee lists ten reps per leg get in
the starting position lift your right
leg until your knee is at waist level
pause for two seconds then put your foot
down ready let's do ten with your right
leg go one two three four five
six seven eight nine ten
now the left leg one two three four five
warm-up number five jumping jacks
20 reps start by standing with your feet
together and your arms down by your
sides as you jump up raise your arms
above your head
and spread your feet out to the sides
from this stance jump again and land in
the starting position got it great let's
go one two three four five six seven
eight nine ten ten nine eight seven six
five four three two and one nice job now
on to the fun part
the exercises I'll go through how to do
each one and then you can give them a
try remember 20 seconds on ten seconds
off eight times each and the one minute
break between the exercises let's do
this exercise number one high knees
this exercise is pretty much like
jogging in place but you want to bring
your knees up to your waist level so
jump with your right knee up then
quickly switch to the left eyes on the
timer when the screen flashes go that
means move your body when it says stop
pause for 10 seconds
[Music]
what are the health benefits of doing
high knees this exercise targets and
tones your calves upper thighs buttocks
and core it also improves balance and
corrects posture thanks to the rapid
alternating one legged stance runners
and athletes do high knees to improve
speed and flexibility in the lower body
[Music]
the American Council on exercise
recommends this exercise to anybody who
wants a six-pack
it also helps reduce lower back pain
[Music]
you're doing great keep going watch your
posture stop while you're catching your
breath for a minute I'll explain the
next routine exercise number two
Froggers we're stepping up the
difficulty here so if it hurts to do
this one slow down a bit or just replace
it with another exercise keeping to the
20 10 second format here's how to do it
bend your knees and put your hands on
the floor in front of you your feet
should be to the sides of your hands and
your wrists in line with your shoulders
keeping your hands where they are jump
into a plank position jump back into the
original position when the screen
flashes hop that's your cue when it says
stop pause for 10 seconds
Froggers tighten the buttocks and shape
your glutes this exercise also stretches
your calves leg muscles quads hamstrings
and apps
[Music]
Froggers help reduce stiffness in the
legs as well keep popping
you're doing great froggies
[Music]
and stop rest for a minute while I
explain the next exercise exercise
number three speed skaters it's exactly
what it sounds like start on one side
shifting your body weight to one leg
come down and cross your other leg back
behind your front leg come up and as you
do switch to the other leg you know the
drill
skate means go and stop means rest for
ten seconds
this cardio exercise targets the hip
flexors glutes ABS quads obliques and
hamstrings it strengthens the lower body
particularly the ankles as well as the
core
[Music]
speedskating can also improve endurance
balance and flexibility it works wonders
for your coordination and focus since
you're doing a lot of movement
simultaneously
[Music]
keep skating bright ciders and stop what
a workout take a break and I'll tell you
how to do the next one exercise number
four blanking believe it or not the
dreaded plank is the easiest part of the
entire Tabata routine get down on the
ground with your legs straight and your
forearms supporting your weight form a
straight line with your body don't let
those hips tip we'll plank for 20
seconds and stop for 10 let's go
believe it or not planking is one of the
most effective exercises you can do it
targets not only the abs but the back
shoulders obliques
glutes and hamstrings as well
[Music]
according to the American Council on
exercise it's an excellent way to
strengthen the core and reduce lower
back pain
when done regularly it can improve your
balance and posture too it also burns
fat and increases your metabolism
[Music]
remember to breathe a few more seconds
and stop don't give up on me now take a
well-deserved breather
and I'll explain the next exercise
exercise number five mountain climbers
to do this floor routine begin in the
push-up position lift one foot so that
your knee comes up towards your chest as
you jump quickly switch the position of
your legs bringing the other knee up try
to keep your body straight the whole
time when you see climb and stop on the
screen you know what to do
this exercise targets your abs hip
flexors triceps deltoids hamstrings
quads back and button yeah basically the
whole body
mountain climbers will get your heart
rate going which improves cardiovascular
health as a cardio exercise you'll burn
plenty of calories while doing that
they also strengthen the core abdominal
muscles and improve strength in your
lower body
[Music]
don't slack now keep it up and stop
definitely deserve a one-minute break
after that one and here's how to do our
final exercise get ready
it's a toughy exercise number six
burpees
the exercise everybody just loves to
hate here's how to do it just like
Froggers jump back into a plank position
this time though lower yourself into a
push-up jump back up into the starting
position from there jump straight up in
the air or simply stand up depending on
your fitness level you know the drill by
now go for 20 seconds and stop for 10
burpees are the ultimate fat blasting
exercise even after you finish your
metabolism will be pumped up throughout
the day it targets your chest legs ABS
arms hamstrings quads and glutes
[Music]
burpies will help you build strength and
endurance as well as improve your
balance and coordination a few more
seconds and stop congratulations you've
successfully completed the short but oh
so intense to buy the training routine
to monitor your progress over time write
down the number of reps completed during
each set for example burpees ten eight
eight seven seven six six five if these
numbers grow week after week you're on
the right track to success and you'll
never have to worry about hitting a
workout plateau ever again
how was your first Tabata experience
tell us in the comments don't forget to
hit the like button and share this video
with anyone you know that's looking to
step up their fitness game stay happy
and healthy on the bright side of life
[Music]